README.md, before:

# poeblix
Poetry Plugin that adds various features deemed unfit for the official release, but makes sense to me

# Overview
These contain custom poetry plugins that enable functionality not available in the official distribution of poetry.  These include:

1. Using the Lock file to build a wheel file with pinned dependencies
2. Support for data_files (like with setup.py) such as jupyter extensions or font files
3. Validating a wheel file is consistent with dependencies specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock
4. Validating a docker container's `pip freeze` contains dependencies as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

These are not supported in Poetry due to debate in the community: https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/890, https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/4013, https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/2778


# How to Use

### Prerequisite

Poetry Plugins are only supported in 1.2.0+ which, at the moment (5/29/22), can only be installed when using the [new poetry installer](https://python-poetry.org/docs/master/#installation), and updating to the preview version via

```commandline
poetry self update --preview
```

## Installation

You can add the plugin via poetry's CLI:

```commandline
poetry plugin add poeblix
```

Or install directly from source/wheel, then add with the same above command using the path to the built dist

## Usage

1. To build a wheel from your package (default uses poetry.lock to pin dependencies in the wheel):

```commandline
poetry blixbuild
```

2. Validate a wheel file has consistent dependencies and data_files as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

```commandline
poetry blixvalidatewheel <path-to-wheel>
```

_Note: this validates consistency in both directions_

3. Validate a docker container contains dependencies in a `pip freeze` as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

```commandline
poetry blixvalidatedocker <docker-container-ID>
```

_Note: this only validates the docker container contains dependencies in the project, but not the other direction_

Here's an example series of commands to start up a temporary docker container using its tag, validate it, then stop the temporary container

```
# This will output the newly running container id
docker run --entrypoint=bash -it -d <docker-image-tag>

# Then validate the running docker container, and stop it when done
poetry blixvalidatedocker <container-id>
docker stop <container-id>
```

4. Adding data_files to pyproject.toml to mimic data_files in setup.py:

```yaml
...

[tool.blix.data]
data_files = [
    { destination = "share/data/", from = [ "data_files/test.txt", "data_files/anotherfile" ] },
    { destination = "share/data/threes", from = [ "data_files/athirdfile" ] }
]

...
```

data_files should be under the `[tool.blix.data]` category and is a list of objects, each containing the `destination` data folder, and a `from` list of files to add to the destination data folder.

_Note: the destination is a relative path that installs data to relative to the [installation prefix](https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html#installing-additional-files)_

Example: https://github.com/spoorn/poeblix/blob/main/test/positive_cases/happy_case_example/pyproject.toml

5. For more help on each command, use the --help argument

```commandline
poetry blixbuild --help
poetry blixvalidatewheel --help
poetry blixvalidatedocker --help
```

# Development

```bash
# Make a virtual environment on Python 3.9
# If using virtualenvwrapper, run `mkvirtualenv -p python3.9 venv`
virtualenv -p python3.9 venv

# Or activate existing virtualenv
# If using virtualenvwrapper, run `workon venv`
source venv/bin/activate

# installs the plugin in editable mode for easier testing via `poetry install`
./devtool bootstrap

# Lint checks
./devtool lint

# Tests
./devtool test

# Run all checks and tests
./devtool all
```

**plugins.py** : contains our plugin that adds the `poetry blixbuild` command for building our wheel file

**validatewheel.py**: adds a `poetry blixvalidatewheel` command that validates a wheel file contains the Required Dist as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

**validatedocker.py** : adds a command that validates a docker file contains dependencies as specified in pyproject.toml and poetry.lock.  This does *NOT* validate that they are exactly matching, but rather that all dependencies in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock exist in the docker container on the correct versions.  The docker image may contain more extra dependencies

Commit message:

Update README with update instructions

README.md, after:

# poeblix
Poetry Plugin that adds various features deemed unfit for the official release, but makes sense to me

# Overview
These contain custom poetry plugins that enable functionality not available in the official distribution of poetry.  These include:

1. Using the Lock file to build a wheel file with pinned dependencies
2. Support for data_files (like with setup.py) such as jupyter extensions or font files
3. Validating a wheel file is consistent with dependencies specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock
4. Validating a docker container's `pip freeze` contains dependencies as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

These are not supported in Poetry due to debate in the community: https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/890, https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/4013, https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/2778


# How to Use

### Prerequisite

Poetry Plugins are only supported in 1.2.0+ which, at the moment (5/29/22), can only be installed when using the [new poetry installer](https://python-poetry.org/docs/master/#installation), and updating to the preview version via

```commandline
poetry self update --preview
```

## Installation

You can add the plugin via poetry's CLI:

```commandline
poetry plugin add poeblix
```

Or install directly from source/wheel, then add with the same above command using the path to the built dist

To update the plugin:

```commandline
# Update to latest
poetry plugin add poeblix@latest

# Update to specific version
poetry plugin add poeblix==<version>
```

## Usage

1. To build a wheel from your package (default uses poetry.lock to pin dependencies in the wheel):

```commandline
poetry blixbuild
```

2. Validate a wheel file has consistent dependencies and data_files as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

```commandline
poetry blixvalidatewheel <path-to-wheel>
```

_Note: this validates consistency in both directions_

3. Validate a docker container contains dependencies in a `pip freeze` as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

```commandline
poetry blixvalidatedocker <docker-container-ID>
```

_Note: this only validates the docker container contains dependencies in the project, but not the other direction_

Here's an example series of commands to start up a temporary docker container using its tag, validate it, then stop the temporary container

```
# This will output the newly running container id
docker run --entrypoint=bash -it -d <docker-image-tag>

# Then validate the running docker container, and stop it when done
poetry blixvalidatedocker <container-id>
docker stop <container-id>
```

4. Adding data_files to pyproject.toml to mimic data_files in setup.py:

```yaml
...

[tool.blix.data]
data_files = [
    { destination = "share/data/", from = [ "data_files/test.txt", "data_files/anotherfile" ] },
    { destination = "share/data/threes", from = [ "data_files/athirdfile" ] }
]

...
```

data_files should be under the `[tool.blix.data]` category and is a list of objects, each containing the `destination` data folder, and a `from` list of files to add to the destination data folder.

_Note: the destination is a relative path that installs data to relative to the [installation prefix](https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html#installing-additional-files)_

Example: https://github.com/spoorn/poeblix/blob/main/test/positive_cases/happy_case_example/pyproject.toml

5. For more help on each command, use the --help argument

```commandline
poetry blixbuild --help
poetry blixvalidatewheel --help
poetry blixvalidatedocker --help
```

# Development

```bash
# Make a virtual environment on Python 3.9
# If using virtualenvwrapper, run `mkvirtualenv -p python3.9 venv`
virtualenv -p python3.9 venv

# Or activate existing virtualenv
# If using virtualenvwrapper, run `workon venv`
source venv/bin/activate

# installs the plugin in editable mode for easier testing via `poetry install`
./devtool bootstrap

# Lint checks
./devtool lint

# Tests
./devtool test

# Run all checks and tests
./devtool all
```

**plugins.py** : contains our plugin that adds the `poetry blixbuild` command for building our wheel file

**validatewheel.py**: adds a `poetry blixvalidatewheel` command that validates a wheel file contains the Required Dist as specified in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock

**validatedocker.py** : adds a command that validates a docker file contains dependencies as specified in pyproject.toml and poetry.lock.  This does *NOT* validate that they are exactly matching, but rather that all dependencies in pyproject.toml/poetry.lock exist in the docker container on the correct versions.  The docker image may contain more extra dependencies
